all right so I've been using the new M4
iPad Pro for like 2 weeks now been doing
a lot of the same stuff I did with my M1
iPad Pro from 3 years ago watching
YouTube videos browsing the internet
answering emails listening to music and
spoiler alert it's almost exactly the
same experience the M1 iPad Pro was
already super overpowered and very
smooth and snappy and had great battery
life and this one now even more so of
all the same stuff
not a very helpful review I know but
I've also been thinking about some of
the really interesting decisions that
Apple made with this iPad specifically
some stuff that wasn't like even really
in the rumor Mills it kind of just came
up didn't even show up in the keynote
but is unusual and different so these
are five of the most interesting choices
that Apple made with the iPad Pro so
first of all the new iPad Pro is thinner
we all knew that it was already an
interesting decision because I kind of
felt like we were done with that a few
iterations ago like nobody was asking
for thinner iPads but maybe they saw all
the gushing over Samsung's Galaxy Tab
Ultra guilty that thing is also
ridiculously impossibly thin so iPad
goes from 6.4 mm which was slightly
thicker than Samsung's flagship to now
5.1 mm which just barely beats Samsung's
number now you know I'm not trying to
start any beef that doesn't already
exist you know I'm sure if you ask Apple
they'll just say look it's the thinnest
Apple product ever which is already nuts
it's crazy thin but I think it really
feels like apple was just looking for
something to make this different to make
it feel different from the last couple
of generations of iPad and now there's
rumors that they may also be doing this
to next year's iPhone just going with
thinness honestly it is noticeably
thinner and lighter to me someone who's
held the previous one quite a bit
definitely less of a difference when you
have a case on it but this is also going
to naturally mean there's less room
inside the iPad but weirdly somehow the
11-in iPad Pro M4 has a larger battery
than the last generation 11-in iPad Pro
and this new bigger 13in has like a tiny
bit slightly smaller battery almost the
same size battery as last year and so
what you end up with is a really good
battery life again awesome standby time
really good battery when you're actually
using it but what strikes me is Apple
could have made if they made this the
same thickness as last year they could
have made an iPad with an enormous
battery life with the efficiency of the
M4 chip it could have had some insane
long
battery or they could make something
strikingly thin and have the same Rock
Solid battery life as always but I would
have loved to have seen option one but
anyway there's also a few other things
missing from this tablet as well so they
avoided saying it during the keynote but
they got rid of the ultrawide camera not
a huge deal at all obviously they kind
of have a huge cutout for the light r on
the camera squares it's still kind of
looks like it's maybe a dual or triple
camera setup but nope single camera lar
and a Flash and I was also curious if
magnet paper could reveal anything new
about the insides of this iPad um this
was before Jerry everything like tore
his apart but I I know instinctively if
you make something thinner and smaller
and the speakers have to suffer right
that would be smaller and magnet paper
fun fact is a great way not only to see
the magnets inside of a device of which
there are many here but it also shows
the iPad Pro has these new much more
circular quad speaker drivers as opposed
to the more rectangular looking ones
from before I've listened to them back
to back this one versus the last
generation and this one is a little bit
less Bassy still loud still some of the
best speakers in any tablet and very
usable but physics so less room inside a
little bit less Bassy with these new
speakers now packaging wise not a lot
has changed I mean an iPad box is still
an iPad box but two things one uh no
stickers anymore so
sorry Apple Fanboys if you are hoping to
keep collecting uh environmental things
no more plastic they're trying not to
ship so much stuff but the thing is okay
they are still shipping these two things
with every iPad if you get a space gray
iPad you get a black cable so the USBC
cable but you also still get a brick
with every iPad fine but it's this white
20 wat charging brick which okay I know
they stopped shipping the brick with the
iPhone and they could use the same logic
and stop shipping a brick with the iPad
but they're still going to ship you a
brick and if you do with this $1500
$2,000 $2500 iPad could it at least be a
good brick could you at least give us
the fastest charging the iPad can
support and maybe even match the color
of the cable maybe but anyway maybe
that's nitpicking hopefully not though
but let's talk about let's talk about
this computer thing so the knock on the
iPad Pro for years now has been that
it's a ridiculously overpowered
amazing piece of Hardware but it's still
an iPad like it still does basically the
same set of things that an iPad Air does
there's a couple little things like
pencil hover and little stuff it's
basically the same so they're not going
to let this turn into a full-fledged
computer because Apple has Macs to
protect so it's kind of stuck as an
overpowered iPad and with this
generation well yeah it's still kind of
true again this is the first time apple
is unveiling the newest generation M4
chip and it's only in this iPad Pro for
now but it's even more powerful at its
peak it benchmarks extremely well it's a
second generation 3 NM process it has a
larger and more powerful neural engine
as well I mean this chip is great but as
far as things that actually take
advantage of that the list is very very
short and some of the stuff is even like
coming later this year like the new
Final Cut app it's just around the
corner so if you just do regular iPad
stuff watching Netflix web browsing all
the classics like this this is going to
feel exactly the same not just as the
last M1 iPad Pro but as an M1 iPad Air
you know if you get this M4 version here
you can you can play those one of the
like three games that support the new
hardware accelerated rate tracing on
this iPad uh you can use the new stem
splitter feature in the New Logic Pro 2
app for iPad that actually looks
incredible if you use logic on the iPad
but the most interesting new thing to me
about M4 is something that they didn't
really talk about they kind of glossed
over it they didn't really dive into it
in the keynote and they don't show it on
their website very clearly but okay in
the past when you're buying an iPad all
you really pay more for in a single iPad
lineup is storage right that's just you
start with it'll be 128 gigs kind of a
joke but then you go up in price and you
just pay for more storage and you can
get different colors and then a few
years ago very sneakily we started
realizing okay you actually also get
more RAM in the highest end models so if
you buy more storage you'll also get
more RAM so 8 gigs of RAM on the basee
ones and 16 gigs of RAM on the 1 and 2
tbte iPad Pros but now on this latest
one the stratification goes even further
now it's also CPU course so first of all
the base iPad Pro is 256 gigs now
thankfully and you go from an 8 core CPU
to a n9ine core CPU with the M4 but
that's just with the base two versions
the top two versions get another
performance core so those are 10 core
CPUs instead of nine and then there's
also the the nanotexture display option
and this is that matte finish one that I
briefly got Hands-On time with at the
event I haven't gotten to see it since
but it does look pretty impressive even
though I do have my durability concerns
with it but that anti-reflective finish
is only available again on the top two
options the one and two terabyte iPad
Pros the expensive ones so now if you're
buying a more expensive iPad Pro you're
getting different amounts of ram
different CPU different storage options
and different display
options very computer-like if you ask me
now the tandem OLED display to me is the
most interesting thing about this new
iPad Pro under the hood but in practice
it's actually honestly just a bit of a
brighter more contrasty version of the
same thing we've been looking at for
years a perfect example of the iPad's
Hardware outpacing the software is
obviously a new OLED display would be
great if you had like an all black
background and maybe show just the time
maybe if you had an always on display it
could look super cool
but the iPad doesn't have an oon display
I don't want to bet money but I wouldn't
be shocked if the next version of iPad
OS did support an always on display with
just the pros because they have the
oleds now but it doesn't we got to wait
till WWDC and then maybe we'll see it
there but I mean aside from that it
still has less blooming for just like
the perfect HDR content with pitch black
blacks I love to see that if you're just
watching regular SDR content though or
just doing any number of regular tasks
watching Netflix browsing emails or web
stuff I mean you won't notice much of a
difference unless you're in direct sun
Max brightness that's a testament to how
good iPad Pro displays have been for
years in the past though now for your
artists out there they've also got this
sweet new pencil no the back still does
not act as an eraser as much as I wish
they would do that but the rest of this
thing is better than ever it supports
find my now it has a new squeeze sensor
inside for selecting different tools
super intuitive I started using it
immediately uh it also has a new haptic
motor inside so you can feel this little
click as you squeeze which is a nice
little confirmation kind of surprised I
didn't add this earlier and then it
supports Barrel rotation for a few tools
that specifically change when you rotate
the point and look it even has this fake
Shadow so this is not a real shadow of
the apple pencil this is a fake totally
unnecessary computer generated Shadow
that's shown on the iPad's display and
it actually matches the type of tool
you're using in real time with rotation
that's just ridiculous and instead of
just calling it the updated apple pencil
they're continuing to sell the old apple
pencil at the same price and they're
calling this one the new pencil
Pro and look I am not an artist I am
squarely outside of the Target
demographic for this thing but what I do
know is if this and its features are
tempting to you then you will need to
buy a whole new iPad to take advantage
of it
and that was on purpose see they moved
the camera to the landscape side of the
iPad now which is great that's where we
wanted it to be the whole time that's
where the face ID array is now it's
awesome it's an ultra wide camera for
FaceTime and all that but that's also
where the pencil has always magnetized
and charged so they actually had to
rearrange the components inside to be
slightly different to work with both now
in the same place so it still snaps on
the top like that but did they have to
do that couldn't they have put the
pencil on the top of the iPad or even
maybe offset it so that the pencil's on
one side and the camera's on the other
side but no they've got it just in the
Middle where it always is and I put some
magnet paper up to the back so I can see
that they did in fact change the magnet
layout inside like I tried pairing the
new Apple pencil Pro to my old iPad Pro
and it kind of stuck on sort of but
didn't pair do anything all right
convenient look I'm still personally not
going to be buying one of these new M4
iPad Pros because of what I do on the
iPad Pro and I already have a relatively
new M1 iPad so I don't need one but if
you don't have a relatively recent iPad
then yeah this thing is great it's
better than ever but I think we're all
on the same page that we're waiting for
WWDC later this year to see what's new
with the latest version of iPad OS to
see if there's anything actually
interesting that this will be capable of
that we don't already know about because
other than that it's kind of the same
story as the last few generations of the
iPad Pro speaking of things that are
thin though debrand iPad skins fun fact
you'd have to stack up 22 of dbrands
iPad skins to make it the same thickness
as the iPad itself trust me I've tried
it's exactly 22 anyway dbrand has been
making the best leather skins in the
business for a while now which is great
because Apple actually isn't really
making anything leather anymore and this
is good quality soft leather like it's
not some sanded down and stamped fake
texture it's actually all natural full
grain leather it's plush and it'll
actually develop a nice patina over time
since you can literally own these iPads
for years so if you want to check out
premium leather accessories for your
iPad check out channel sponsor dbrand
link is in the description either way
that's been it let me know what you
think thanks for watching catch you guys
in the next one peace
[Music]